Now let's play around with fonts in the Quotation Excel. You
will see how to change the title font,
then change the font color and style of the column headings of
the product details section, and the Sub Total,
Total, and Tax labels.
You will be using the XSSFFont class to do all of this,
so you will need to create a new XSSFFont object.
Then if you want to set a different font type, call the
setFontName method, passing in the name of the font, for
example, Arial. If you want to make it bold,
call the setBold method, passing true to it.
If you want to make it italic, simply call the setItalic method,
passing in true once again. To set the font size to a different value,
you can call the setFontHeightInPoints method, passing in the size. To
set the font color, you can call the setColor method, passing in a
color. And finally, create a new XSSFCellStyle object if required, or
use an existing style object and set the font to it by calling the
setFont method.
Let's change the font of the title to Arial, Bold, and size 24.
So in here,
create an XSSFFont object, call the relevant methods
to set the values as required,
like this, setFontName, setBold, and setFontHeightInPoints.
Then create a new XSSFCellStyle object and set its font
to the new font that you created.
Also remember to set the CellStyle to the titleCell. Then in
the addQuoteDetails method, create a new font object, and make
it bold, and set its color to blue.
To do that, first create an XSSFColor object. You need to pass the
required color like this, and an IndexedColorMap.
You can get the IndexedColorMap using this line of code.
Then pass the colorMap into the XSSFColor object. then set
the color to the font object.
Now you have a font that is bold and blue in color.
Next,
create a new CellStyle named headerRowCellStyle, set the font that you
created to this style, also align it to be center aligned.
We are going to apply this style to the product details column headings.
Let's create another font which is bold and italic.
This code will create a bold and italic font. Create a new style,
and set its font to the bold and italic font. You will use it for
the Sub Total, Tax, and Total labels.
Now apply the bold and blue font to Qty, Description, Unit Price, and
Line Total column headings, and the bold and italic font to Sub Total,
Tax, and Total label cells. Once you apply them,
Save and Run, and you can see the font changes applied in the Quotation like this.